README.md, before:

# Reports Creation

Suite of report creation tools. The following reports can be created using this tool:

|         Report Name         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|:---------------------------:|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|  Polling District Profile   | Lists all PDs in a given FED. Shows PD number, PD name, electors listed and void status. Totals are included at end of report.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|  Advance Polling Districts  | Lists all APDs in a given FED. Shows APD #, APD name, PDs served, total # of PDs in each APD (includes MOBs and SBPDs). Total number of APDs included at end of report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|    Mobile Polls Summary     | Lists all MOBs in a given FED. Shows PD #s, # of institutions, electors listed, and APD # for each MOB.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|        Descriptions         | Lists the PD street segments for each ORD PD, lists each SBPD and MOB in a given FED. Shows PD #, PD name, and CSD name for every PD. ORD PD: Street names, FROM-TO features, FROM-TO civic # ranges, and sides. TRMs are added at the end of affected ORD PDs in the Prairies only. SBPDs: Building name and civic address associated with it. MOBs: Institution names, institution addresses, and electors listed. There is a sub-total at the end of each MOB. |
| Electoral District Poll Key | Lists every PD street segment for each ORD, SBPD and MOB in a given FED. Each PDSS shows the CSD, street name, the FROM-TO features, the FROM-TO civic # range, side, PD #, and APD #. The PDSS are grouped and ordered by street name, type, direction, and address range, and are sub-grouped by CSD name and type.                                                                                                                                             |

## Requirements

This project will require the installation of ArcGIS Pro as access to the default ArcGIS Pro python environment as well 
as arcpy are required to run the projects workflows. Ensure that you have a valid licence associated with your 
installation of Arcgis Pro before running any of tools in this repository.

## Usage 

TBA

##

Commit message:

Initial commit for this branch. First attempt at building with report builder. Styling issues, page numbers, and header need work

README.md, after:

# Reports Creation

Suite of report creation tools. The following reports can be created using this tool:

|         Report Name         | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
|:---------------------------:|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|  Polling District Profile   | Lists all PDs in a given FED. Shows PD number, PD name, electors listed and void status. Totals are included at end of report.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
|  Advance Polling Districts  | Lists all APDs in a given FED. Shows APD #, APD name, PDs served, total # of PDs in each APD (includes MOBs and SBPDs). Total number of APDs included at end of report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|    Mobile Polls Summary     | Lists all MOBs in a given FED. Shows PD #s, # of institutions, electors listed, and APD # for each MOB.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|        Descriptions         | Lists the PD street segments for each ORD PD, lists each SBPD and MOB in a given FED. Shows PD #, PD name, and CSD name for every PD. ORD PD: Street names, FROM-TO features, FROM-TO civic # ranges, and sides. TRMs are added at the end of affected ORD PDs in the Prairies only. SBPDs: Building name and civic address associated with it. MOBs: Institution names, institution addresses, and electors listed. There is a sub-total at the end of each MOB. |
| Electoral District Poll Key | Lists every PD street segment for each ORD, SBPD and MOB in a given FED. Each PDSS shows the CSD, street name, the FROM-TO features, the FROM-TO civic # range, side, PD #, and APD #. The PDSS are grouped and ordered by street name, type, direction, and address range, and are sub-grouped by CSD name and type.                                                                                                                                             |

## Requirements

This project will require the installation python 3.9 or newer. Package requirements can be found in the requirements.txt
and can be installed using pip or the package manager of your choice. 

## Usage 

TBA

##
